README.md, before:

# DHL Express SOAP API client

A generated SOAP API client for the [DHL Express Global Webservice](https://www.dhl.com).

## Installation

To install the package, you can use composer:

```
composer require dreipunktnull/dhl-express
```

Usage without composer is currently not possible and needs some adjustments in the provided autoloader.

## Shipment Requests

A shipment request is usually created through the webservice and in order to mutate (f.e. cancel) it,
we need some parameters. You should therefore create your own `ShipmentRequest` data class and persist
the `ShipmentDetail` data points.

As of now, no such class is included.

```php
class ShipmentRequestService
{
    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $user;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $password;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $accountNumber;

    /**
     * @param string $user
     * @param string $password
     * @param string $accountNumber
     */
    public function __construct(string $user, string $password, string $accountNumber)
    {
        $this->user = $user;
        $this->password = $password;
        $this->accountNumber = $accountNumber;
    }
    
    /**
     * @param \DateTimeInterface $shipTimestamp
     * @param ContactInfoType    $sender
     * @param ContactInfoType    $recipient
     * @param ShipmentRequest    $shipmentRequest
     * @param string|null        $restrictToServiceType
     *
     * @return \DHL\Express\Webservice\ShipmentDetailType
     */
    public function createShipping(\DateTimeInterface $shipTimestamp, ContactInfoType $sender, ContactInfoType $recipient, ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest, $restrictToServiceType = null)
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();

        $shipmentInfo = new ShipmentInfoType(
            DropOffType::REQUEST_COURIER,
            $this->calculateShippingType($shipmentRequest),
            ShipmentInfoType::CURRENCY_EUR,
            UnitOfMeasurement::SI
        );

        $shipmentInfo->setAccount($this->accountNumber);

        $internationalDetail = new InternationDetailType(new CommoditiesType('Keine Angabe'));
        $internationalDetail->setContent(Content::DOCUMENTS);

        $requestedShipment = new RequestedShipmentType(
            $shipmentInfo,
            sprintf('%sT%s GMT+01:00', $shipTimestamp->format('Y-m-d'), $shipTimestamp->format('H:i:s')),
            PaymentInfo::DDP,
            $internationalDetail,
            new ShipType($sender, $recipient),
            new docTypeRef_PackagesType(
                new docTypeRef_RequestedPackagesType(
                    self::PACKAGE_WEIGHT,
                    new docTypeRef_DimensionsType(self::PACKAGE_LENGTH, self::PACKAGE_WIDTH, self::PACKAGE_HEIGHT),
                    '1',
                    1,
                    'No Description'
                )
            )
        );

        if (null !== $shipmentRequest->getSpecialPickupInstruction()) {
            $requestedShipment->setSpecialPickupInstruction($shipmentRequest->getSpecialPickupInstruction());
        }

        if (null !== $shipmentRequest->getPickupLocation()) {
            $requestedShipment->setPickupLocation($shipmentRequest->getPickupLocation());
        }

        if ($shipTimestamp instanceof \DateTimeImmutable) {
            $pickupLocationCloseTime = $shipTimestamp->modify('+91 minutes');
        } else {
            $pickupLocationCloseTime = \DateTimeImmutable::createFromMutable($shipTimestamp)->modify('+91 minutes');
        }

        $requestedShipment->setPickupLocationCloseTime($pickupLocationCloseTime->format('H:i'));

        $request = new ProcessShipmentRequestType($requestedShipment);

        $shipmentDetailType = $webservice->createShipmentRequest($request);

        return $shipmentDetailType;
    }
    
    /**
     * This should only be done if the pickup type is something other than PickupType::Regular.
     *
     * @param ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest
     * @param string $requester This parameter is required but won't be evaluated.
     * @param string $reason    This parameter is optional but may be useful.
     * @return DeleteResponseType
     */
    public function cancel(ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest, $requester = 'ERNIE_OR_BERT', $reason = DeleteRequestType::REASON_REASON_NOT_GIVEN): DeleteResponseType
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();

        $deleteRequest = new DeleteRequestType(
            $shipmentRequest->getShipmentTime()->format('Y-m-d'),
            $shipmentRequest->getPickupCountry(),
            $shipmentRequest->getDispatchConfirmationNumber(),
            $requester
        );

        $deleteRequest->setReason($reason);

        return $webservice->deleteShipmentRequest($deleteRequest);
    }

    /**
     * @return GblDHLExpressTrack
     */
    private function prepareWebservice(): GblDHLExpressTrack
    {
        $track = new GblDHLExpressTrack(['trace' => 1]);

        $wsse_header = WssWsuAuthHeader::soapClientWSSecurityHeader($this->user, $this->password, $this->accountNumber);
        $track->__setSoapHeaders([$wsse_header]);

        return $track;
    }
}
```

## Tracking

Example Tracking Service that is able to authenticate and track a package:

```php

use DHL\Express\Webservice\Soap\WssWsuAuthHeader;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\ArrayOfAWBNumber;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\GblDHLExpressTrack;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\LevelOfDetails;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\PublicTrackingRequest;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\Request;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\ServiceHeader;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\TrackingRequest;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\TrackShipmentRequest;
use Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid;

class TrackingService
{
    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $user;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $password;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $accountNumber;

    /**
     * @param string $user
     * @param string $password
     * @param string $accountNumber
     */
    public function __construct(string $user, string $password, string $accountNumber)
    {
        $this->user = $user;
        $this->password = $password;
        $this->accountNumber = $accountNumber;
    }

    /**
     * Tracks a package.
     *
     * @param string $trackingNumber
     * @param string $levelOfDetails
     * @return \DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\trackShipmentRequestResponse
     */
    public function track($trackingNumber, $levelOfDetails = LevelOfDetails::LAST_CHECK_POINT_ONLY)
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();
        $parameters = new TrackShipmentRequest();

        $trackingRequest = new TrackingRequest(new Request(new ServiceHeader(new \DateTime(), implode('', explode('-', Uuid::uuid4())))), $levelOfDetails);
        $trackingRequest->setAWBNumber(new ArrayOfAWBNumber([$trackingNumber]));

        $parameters->setTrackingRequest(new PublicTrackingRequest($trackingRequest));

        return $webservice->trackShipmentRequest($parameters);
    }

    /**
     * @return GblDHLExpressTrack
     */
    private function prepareWebservice(): GblDHLExpressTrack
    {
        $track = new GblDHLExpressTrack(['trace' => 1]);

        $wsse_header = WssWsuAuthHeader::soapClientWSSecurityHeader($this->user, $this->password, $this->accountNumber);
        $track->__setSoapHeaders([$wsse_header]);

        return $track;
    }
}

```

## Support

Please use the GitHub issue tracker. For commercial support for your project contact
[dreipunktnull](https://dreipunktnull.com).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Acknowledge wsdl2phpgenerator in README

README.md, after:

# DHL Express SOAP API client

A generated SOAP API client for the [DHL Express Global Webservice](https://www.dhl.com).

## Installation

To install the package, you can use composer:

```
composer require dreipunktnull/dhl-express
```

Usage without composer is currently not possible and needs some adjustments in the provided autoloader.

## Shipment Requests

A shipment request is usually created through the webservice and in order to mutate (f.e. cancel) it,
we need some parameters. You should therefore create your own `ShipmentRequest` data class and persist
the `ShipmentDetail` data points.

As of now, no such class is included.

```php
class ShipmentRequestService
{
    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $user;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $password;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $accountNumber;

    /**
     * @param string $user
     * @param string $password
     * @param string $accountNumber
     */
    public function __construct(string $user, string $password, string $accountNumber)
    {
        $this->user = $user;
        $this->password = $password;
        $this->accountNumber = $accountNumber;
    }
    
    /**
     * @param \DateTimeInterface $shipTimestamp
     * @param ContactInfoType    $sender
     * @param ContactInfoType    $recipient
     * @param ShipmentRequest    $shipmentRequest
     * @param string|null        $restrictToServiceType
     *
     * @return \DHL\Express\Webservice\ShipmentDetailType
     */
    public function createShipping(\DateTimeInterface $shipTimestamp, ContactInfoType $sender, ContactInfoType $recipient, ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest, $restrictToServiceType = null)
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();

        $shipmentInfo = new ShipmentInfoType(
            DropOffType::REQUEST_COURIER,
            $this->calculateShippingType($shipmentRequest),
            ShipmentInfoType::CURRENCY_EUR,
            UnitOfMeasurement::SI
        );

        $shipmentInfo->setAccount($this->accountNumber);

        $internationalDetail = new InternationDetailType(new CommoditiesType('Keine Angabe'));
        $internationalDetail->setContent(Content::DOCUMENTS);

        $requestedShipment = new RequestedShipmentType(
            $shipmentInfo,
            sprintf('%sT%s GMT+01:00', $shipTimestamp->format('Y-m-d'), $shipTimestamp->format('H:i:s')),
            PaymentInfo::DDP,
            $internationalDetail,
            new ShipType($sender, $recipient),
            new docTypeRef_PackagesType(
                new docTypeRef_RequestedPackagesType(
                    self::PACKAGE_WEIGHT,
                    new docTypeRef_DimensionsType(self::PACKAGE_LENGTH, self::PACKAGE_WIDTH, self::PACKAGE_HEIGHT),
                    '1',
                    1,
                    'No Description'
                )
            )
        );

        if (null !== $shipmentRequest->getSpecialPickupInstruction()) {
            $requestedShipment->setSpecialPickupInstruction($shipmentRequest->getSpecialPickupInstruction());
        }

        if (null !== $shipmentRequest->getPickupLocation()) {
            $requestedShipment->setPickupLocation($shipmentRequest->getPickupLocation());
        }

        if ($shipTimestamp instanceof \DateTimeImmutable) {
            $pickupLocationCloseTime = $shipTimestamp->modify('+91 minutes');
        } else {
            $pickupLocationCloseTime = \DateTimeImmutable::createFromMutable($shipTimestamp)->modify('+91 minutes');
        }

        $requestedShipment->setPickupLocationCloseTime($pickupLocationCloseTime->format('H:i'));

        $request = new ProcessShipmentRequestType($requestedShipment);

        $shipmentDetailType = $webservice->createShipmentRequest($request);

        return $shipmentDetailType;
    }
    
    /**
     * This should only be done if the pickup type is something other than PickupType::Regular.
     *
     * @param ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest
     * @param string $requester This parameter is required but won't be evaluated.
     * @param string $reason    This parameter is optional but may be useful.
     * @return DeleteResponseType
     */
    public function cancel(ShipmentRequest $shipmentRequest, $requester = 'ERNIE_OR_BERT', $reason = DeleteRequestType::REASON_REASON_NOT_GIVEN): DeleteResponseType
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();

        $deleteRequest = new DeleteRequestType(
            $shipmentRequest->getShipmentTime()->format('Y-m-d'),
            $shipmentRequest->getPickupCountry(),
            $shipmentRequest->getDispatchConfirmationNumber(),
            $requester
        );

        $deleteRequest->setReason($reason);

        return $webservice->deleteShipmentRequest($deleteRequest);
    }

    /**
     * @return GblDHLExpressTrack
     */
    private function prepareWebservice(): GblDHLExpressTrack
    {
        $track = new GblDHLExpressTrack(['trace' => 1]);

        $wsse_header = WssWsuAuthHeader::soapClientWSSecurityHeader($this->user, $this->password, $this->accountNumber);
        $track->__setSoapHeaders([$wsse_header]);

        return $track;
    }
}
```

## Tracking

Example Tracking Service that is able to authenticate and track a package:

```php

use DHL\Express\Webservice\Soap\WssWsuAuthHeader;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\ArrayOfAWBNumber;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\GblDHLExpressTrack;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\LevelOfDetails;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\PublicTrackingRequest;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\Request;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\ServiceHeader;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\TrackingRequest;
use DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\TrackShipmentRequest;
use Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid;

class TrackingService
{
    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $user;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $password;

    /**
     * @var string
     */
    private $accountNumber;

    /**
     * @param string $user
     * @param string $password
     * @param string $accountNumber
     */
    public function __construct(string $user, string $password, string $accountNumber)
    {
        $this->user = $user;
        $this->password = $password;
        $this->accountNumber = $accountNumber;
    }

    /**
     * Tracks a package.
     *
     * @param string $trackingNumber
     * @param string $levelOfDetails
     * @return \DHL\Express\Webservice\Tracking\trackShipmentRequestResponse
     */
    public function track($trackingNumber, $levelOfDetails = LevelOfDetails::LAST_CHECK_POINT_ONLY)
    {
        $webservice = $this->prepareWebservice();
        $parameters = new TrackShipmentRequest();

        $trackingRequest = new TrackingRequest(new Request(new ServiceHeader(new \DateTime(), implode('', explode('-', Uuid::uuid4())))), $levelOfDetails);
        $trackingRequest->setAWBNumber(new ArrayOfAWBNumber([$trackingNumber]));

        $parameters->setTrackingRequest(new PublicTrackingRequest($trackingRequest));

        return $webservice->trackShipmentRequest($parameters);
    }

    /**
     * @return GblDHLExpressTrack
     */
    private function prepareWebservice(): GblDHLExpressTrack
    {
        $track = new GblDHLExpressTrack(['trace' => 1]);

        $wsse_header = WssWsuAuthHeader::soapClientWSSecurityHeader($this->user, $this->password, $this->accountNumber);
        $track->__setSoapHeaders([$wsse_header]);

        return $track;
    }
}

```

## Acknowledgements

The base version of this library was generated with [wsdl2phpgenerator](https://github.com/wsdl2phpgenerator/wsdl2phpgenerator).

## Support

Please use the GitHub issue tracker. For commercial support for your project contact
[dreipunktnull](https://dreipunktnull.com).

## License

MIT
